
--- PAGE 1 ---
Eros International Media Limited vs Telemax Links India Pvt
Limited And 7 Ors on 12 April, 2016
Author: G. S. Patel
Bench: G.S. Patel
                                       EROS v TELEMAX
                                     NMS886-2013-331-2013.doc
     ATUL
          IN THE HIGH COURT OF JUDICATURE AT BOMBAY
               ORDINARY ORIGINAL CIVIL JURISDICTION
                    NOTICE OF MOTION NO. 886 OF 2013
                                               IN
                                   SUIT NO. 331 OF 2013
     EROS INTERNATIONAL MEDIA LIMITED
     having its office at 901/902, Supreme Chambers,
     Off. Veera Desai Road, Andheri (West), Mumbai
     400 053                                                                     ...Plai
                              ig   Versus
     1.        TELEMAX LINKS INDIA PVT. LTD.
               having its office at J-6, House No. 15,
               Basement, DLF Phase II, Gurgaon,
Eros International Media Limited vs Telemax Links India Pvt Limited And 7 Ors on 12 April, 2016
Indian Kanoon - http://indiankanoon.org/doc/148880955/
1

--- PAGE 2 ---
               Haryana-122008; and also having its office
               at 305, Mahavir Indusrial Estate Near
               Paper Box, Off Mahakali Caves, Andheri
               (East), Mumbai 400 093
     2.        VIDEOCON INDUSTRIES LIMITED
               having its office Mittal Court, 17th Floor,
               C-Wing, Nariman Point, Mumbai 400 021
     3.        UNIVERSAL DIGITAL CONNECT
               LTD. having its office at 221, 2nd floor,
               Fort House, Dr. D. N. Road, Fort, Mumbai
               400 001
     4.        CELIKON IMPEX PRIVATE
               LIMITED, having office at: Q2, 1st Floor,
               Cyber Towers, Hi-Tech City, Hyderabad -
               500 081 (India)
     5.        XAGE COMMUNICATION INDIA
               PVT. LTD. hav ing office at : 404-A,
               Fourth Floor, Chiranjiv Tower, 43, Nehru
                                             1 of 17
    ::: Uploaded on - 18/04/2016                                ::: Downloaded on - 18/0
                                      EROS v TELEMAX
                                   NMS886-2013-331-2013.doc
               Place, New Delhi - 110 019
     6.        MICROMAX INFORMATICS
               LIMITED, having office at: 21/14A,
               Phase-II, Naraina Industrial Area, Delhi -
Eros International Media Limited vs Telemax Links India Pvt Limited And 7 Ors on 12 April, 2016
Indian Kanoon - http://indiankanoon.org/doc/148880955/
2

--- PAGE 3 ---
               110 028
     7.        LAVA INTERNATIONAL LIMITED
               having office at : A-56, Sector- 64, Noida -
               201 301,U.P. India.
     8.        ZEN MOBILES (TELEECARE
               NETWORK INDIA), having office at : K-
               17, Lajpat Nagar, Paart-2, New Delhi-
               110024                                                      ...Defendants
     APPEARANCES             
     FOR THE PLAINTIFF                  Mr. V. R. Dhond, Senior Advocate,
                                             with Mr. Riyaz Chagla, Mr.
                                             Akshay Patil, Mr. Avesh Kayser, &
                                             Ms. Tanuja Liiman, i/b Mr. Avesh
                                             Kayser.
     FOR DEFENDANT NO.1                 Dr. Veerendra Tulzapurkar, Senior
                                              Advocate, with Mr. Amit
                                              Jamsandekar, Mrs. Mahua Roy
                                              Chowdry, Ms. Akshata Ankolekar,
                                              & Ms. Arya Bile, i/b M/s. Solomon
                                              & Co.
     FOR DEFENDANT NO.2                 Mr. V. R. Kasle, i/b MK/s. Ram & Co.
     FOR DEFENDANT NO.7                 Ms. Sejal Shah, i/b Mr. Sandeep
                                             Maubarwalal
     FOR DEFENDANT NO.8                 Mr. Yashodeep Deshmukh, with Mr.
Eros International Media Limited vs Telemax Links India Pvt Limited And 7 Ors on 12 April, 2016
Indian Kanoon - http://indiankanoon.org/doc/148880955/
3

--- PAGE 4 ---
                                             Sayeed Mulani, i/b M/s. Mulani &
                                             Co.
                                           2 of 17
    ::: Uploaded on - 18/04/2016                              ::: Downloaded on - 18/04/
                                       EROS v TELEMAX
                                    NMS886-2013-331-2013.doc
                                   CORAM: G.S. PATEL, J
                                   DATED: 12th April 2016
     ORAL JUDGMENT:
1. This is the 1st Defendant's application under Section 8 of the Arbitration and Conciliation Act,
1996. The prayer made is that all the disputes between the Plaintiff and Defendant No. 1 be referrEd
to arbitration in terms of the Arbitration Agreement contained in a Term Sheet dated 13th June
2012. That Term Sheet was between the Plaintiff and the 1st Defendant. I must note that Defendants
Nos. 2 to 8 all claim to have used the copyright-protected material in question under a sub-licence
from Defendant No. 1. None of thE Defendants are using any of that material now. Defendants Nos.
2, 7 and 8 are separately represented. Defendants Nos. 2 to 6 have all filed Affidavits supporting the
1st Defendant and inter alia agreeing to have that disputes referred to arbitration. Defendants Nos. 7
and 8 have confirmed this as well.
2. The Suit itself was first mounted as a copyright action. Some facts are necessary. The Plaintiff
produces, distributes and exhibits feature films through various media and in various modes. It
owns copyright in several feature films. For others, it has assignments or exclusive licenses.1 Thes
Plaintiff exploits its copyright through various media, including mobiles phones, tablets, desktops
and portable storage devices.
3. In March 2012, Defendant No. 1 ("Telemax") approached the Plaintiff ("Eros") saying that it had
sufficient expertise in the Particulars are set out in Exhibit "A" to the plaint.
Eros International Media Limited vs Telemax Links India Pvt Limited And 7 Ors on 12 April, 2016
Indian Kanoon - http://indiankanoon.org/doc/148880955/
4

--- PAGE 5 ---
3 of 17 EROS v TELEMAX NMS886-2013-331-2013.doc business of content distribution to
manufacturers of devices by which content could be 'pre-embeded' or 'pre-burned'. Telemax offered
a sum of Rs. 1.5 Crores as a non-refundable minimum guarantee amount for the grant of content
marketing and distribution rights in respect of films. A Term Sheet dated 13th June 2012 was
executed between the parties.2 Preceding this Term Sheet there was some correspondence in which
the Eros alleged that there was copyright infringement by Telemax, but for the present purpose this
matters little given the frame of the present Notice of Motion.
4. The Term Sheet itself requires consideration. It contemplates an exclusive licensing contract for
various audio-visual materials. It also contemplate the execution of what is called a 'Long Form
Agreement'. This was to be executed within ten days of execution of the Term Sheet. When so
executed that Long Form Agreement was to supersede and override the terms and conditions of the
Term Sheet. The Long Form Agreement would be the final and binding agreement between the
parties.
5. What is of consequence, however, is the Arbitration Agreement, contained in a distinct clause on
the last page of the Term Sheet. It is necessary to set this out in full:
Arbitration In case of any dispute or difference arising out of or in connection with
this Term Sheet the same shall initially be referred to and resolved by mutual
consultation between the parties hereto failing which the same shall be referred to
the arbitration of a Sole Arbitrator Plaint, Exhibit "L", p. 81.
4 of 17 EROS v TELEMAX NMS886-2013-331-2013.doc appointed mutually by Eros
and Telemax failing which the Sole Arbitrator will be appointed vide application to
the Bombay High Court under Section 11 of the Arbitration and Conciliation Ac, 1996.
The Arbitration proceedings shall be in English and held in Mumbai and the Court in
Mumbai alone shall have jurisdiction.
6. On the face of it, this Arbitration clause refers to disputes and differences arising out of or in
connection with the Term Sheet. In other words it is not limited to disputes and differences arising
or stemming from the Long Form Agreement that was yet to be executed. The Arbitration
Agreement is in the widest possible terms. It is this Arbitration Agreement that the Telemax seeks to
enforce, and it is under this Arbitration Agreement that Telemax seeks that the disputes in this
Plaint be referred to arbitration.
7. Eros says that the Term Sheet is not binding. In any case, the condition required by that Term
Sheet, i.e., the execution of the Long Form Agreement was never fulfilled. The Arbitration
Agreement, therefore, according to Eros is inapplicable and does not govern the parties. In
paragraphs 4 and 13 of the Plaint, Eros sets out its case in relation to this Term Sheet. It says that
there was no agreement on various issues and that it had been agreed that till that Long Form
Agreement was executed Telemax would not exploit or deal with the copyright-protected content.
Telemax infringed Eros's copyright and was therefore liable to suffer an injunction. Specifically in
relation to the Term Sheet, Eros says this in paragraph 13 of the plaint:
Eros International Media Limited vs Telemax Links India Pvt Limited And 7 Ors on 12 April, 2016
Indian Kanoon - http://indiankanoon.org/doc/148880955/
5

--- PAGE 6 ---
5 of 17 EROS v TELEMAX NMS886-2013-331-2013.doc "13. Although the Term
Sheet dated 13th June 2012 provides for Arbitration to resolve the disputes and
differences arising out of the said Term Sheet, in view of the facts and circumstances
of the case, especially the rights created by the Defendant No. 1 in favour of
Defendant Nos. 2 to 8 the entire cause of action cannot be referred to Arbitration.
The present Suit is a composite action. Further Defendant Nos. 2 to 8 are not a party
to the Arbitration Agreement or not amicable to the jurisdiction of the Arbitral
Tribunal under the said Term Sheet and consequently Arbitration is not and effective
remedy to the Plaintiff to secure the reliefs claimed under the present suit."
8. To complete this factual conspectus, it is common ground that the tenure of the Term Sheet has
expired and that none of the Defendants are today using any of Eros's copyright-protected material.
There would, therefore, survive a claim for damages, and a possible claim for relief in terms of a
permanent injunction for the future.
9. Dr. Tulzapurkar for the Plaintiff submits that there is no specific bar to the arbitration or the
arbitrability of such disputes. Eros's claim is under the Term Sheet. This is not a case where the
allegation is that Telemax is guilty of copyright infringement simpliciter. There is very much a
contract between the parties. He therefore submits that all civil disputes of the kind mentioned in
the Term Sheet and in the Arbitration Agreement lend themselves to arbitration, and it is settled law
that all civil disputes are, by definition, arbitrable except those that are specifically excluded, such as
those mentioned in the decision of the Supreme Court in Booz Allen & Hamilton Inc vs SBI Home
Finance Limited & Ors. 3 He refers to paragraph 20 to 24 of this decision (from the AIR report).
AIR 2011 SC 2507 6 of 17 EROS v TELEMAX NMS886-2013-331-2013.doc In particular he
emphasises that certain types of disputes are well- known to be non-arbitrable. These include
disputes relating to rights and liabilities that give rise to or arise from criminal offences;
matrimonial disputes relating to divorce, judicial separation, restitution of conjugal rights;
guardianship matters; insolvency and winding up matters; testamentary matters such as those for
grant of probate, Letters of Administration and Succession Certificates; and eviction or tenancy
matters governed by special statutes where jurisdiction is specifically conferred on designated
Courts.
10. Dr. Tulzapurkar's argument is that the remedies sought by the Eros are not in rem. The suit is
very much an action in personam between Eros and Telemax (and those claiming under Telemax). A
claim in rem is distinct from a claim for enforcement against an individual. He refers also to a
decision of the Supreme Court in V. H. Patel & Co. & Ors. v Hirubhai Himabhai Patel & Ors. 4 The
disputes in that case, pertaining inter alia to three trade marks used in relation to Beedis and Beedi
manufacturing in Chalisgaon, were referred to the Sole Arbitration of a retired Judge of this Court.
The Arbitrator held that a certain writing and a retirement deed were invalid, void, and not binding.
He also declared that one of the parties had not retired from partnership under a particular deed.
The Arbitrator did not entertain a counter-claim from the Respondents seeking a dissolution of one
of the firms, saying that it was beyond the scope of his reference. A single Judge set aside the finding
Eros International Media Limited vs Telemax Links India Pvt Limited And 7 Ors on 12 April, 2016
Indian Kanoon - http://indiankanoon.org/doc/148880955/
6

--- PAGE 7 ---
of the Arbitrator and held that the Arbitrator did in fact have jurisdiction to entertain the
counter-claim seeking dissolution of a partnership firm. Unusually in such cases, the learned Single
Judge remitted the issue back to the Arbitrator for a de novo consideration and a decision in
accordance with law. That order of the learned 2000 (4) SCC 368 7 of 17 EROS v TELEMAX
NMS886-2013-331-2013.doc Single Judge was challenged before the Supreme Court. 5 In
paragraphs 3 and 4 of its decision the Supreme Court dealt with the aspect of arbitrability of the
counter-claim. The Supreme Court noted the contention raised before it that the Arbitrator had no
power to dissolve a partnership firm. The argument was that such a dissolution is based on a ground
of it being just and equitable to order dissolution, and that power, or any such power, is within the
remit of a Court alone. In paragraph 12, dealing with the power of a private arbitral tribunal to
dissolve a partnership, the Supreme Court held that the law is clear that where there is a clause in
the articles of partnership or in an agreement referring the matters between the parties to
arbitration, the arbitrator does have the power to decide whether or not the partnership should be
dissolved and to award its dissolution. The arbitrator's powers depend primarily upon the
arbitration clause. There is no principle in law, the Supreme Court said, nor any provision that bars
an arbitrator from examining such a question. It held that it is permissible for the Court to refer to
arbitration a dispute in relation to dissolution on a ground such as the destruction of mutual trust
and confidence between the partners which is the foundation of the partnership.
11. Dr. Tulzapurkar relies on this decision in support of his argument that ousting arbitrability, in
the face of an arbitration clause, is not something to be lightly assumed. It must be done in limited
cases which are clearly non-arbitrable. Today there is no surviving claim except, as I have noted, one
for damages and possibly one for a future injunction.
The matter was, it seems, taken directly to the Supreme Court. This aspect is noted in paragraphs 6
and 7 the judgment.
8 of 17 EROS v TELEMAX NMS886-2013-331-2013.doc
12. There is a distinction, Dr. Tulzapurkar submits, between the forum, i.e., the arbitral forum, and
the remedy. It is altogether too broad a proposition to say that no action under the Trade Marks Act
or the Copyright Act can ever be referred to arbitration.
13. As regards the question of the supporting Defendants, Dr. Tulzapurkar refers to the amended
Section 8 which now includes parties or persons claiming through or under a party to an arbitration
agreement. This would include Defendants Nos. 2 to 8. All have indicated by filing Affidavits or by
statements to Court that they are agreeable to a reference to an arbitration.
14. Mr. Dhond's argument for the Plaintiff is that disputes of this kind are inherently non-arbitrable.
Parties must, irrespective of what an agreement between them might or might not say, invoke only
the remedy of going to Court. A party must use the statutory remedy provided. This is not, in his
submission, a right arising purely out of a contract. He says that in order even to arrive at a finding
in his favour of damages, there must be a finding of infringement of copyright. That finding,
whether it translates into a specific relief or not, is one that is only within the remit of a Court. It can
Eros International Media Limited vs Telemax Links India Pvt Limited And 7 Ors on 12 April, 2016
Indian Kanoon - http://indiankanoon.org/doc/148880955/
7

--- PAGE 8 ---
never be done by an Arbitrator. He relies upon the decision of the Supreme Court in The Premier
Automobiles Limited v Kamlekar Shantaram Wadke & Ors.6 to say that the jurisdiction of a Civil
Court cannot be ousted in matters such as these. He also refers to the decision of the Supreme Court
in Managment Committee of Montfort Senior Secondary School v. Vijay Kumar & Others,7 a
decision that cited Premier Automobiles, again to buttress his submission that if a statute confers a
right and provides for a remedy for its enforcement, the (1976) 1 SCC 496 (2005) 7 SCC 472 9 of 17
EROS v TELEMAX NMS886-2013-331-2013.doc remedy provided by the statute is an exclusive one.
I think this misses the point entirely. Nobody is suggesting that the remedy is taken away. All that is
being said is that the parties have agreed to go to a particular forum to seek that remedy. The
remedy itself is not excluded. I do not see how either of these two decisions furthers Mr. Dhond's
case. He then relies on a decision of a Single Judge of this Court (Gupte, J.) in Steel Authority of
India Ltd. v SKS Ispat & Power Ltd. & Ors.8 In paragraph 4, Gupte J. observed that the suit was for
reliefs in infringement and passing off which by their very nature do not fall within the jurisdiction
of the Arbitrator. Mr. Dhond uses this to suggest that this judgments lays down an absolute
principle that all disputes in trade mark and copyright infringement and passing off are, therefore,
non-arbitrable. The reason, he suggests, is that such actions are actions in rem. I must note that the
matter before Gupte J. was slightly different. There was there an agreement as well. It too had an
arbitration clause. However, the Defendant No. 1 was accused of misusing the brand name and was
guilty of infringement and passing off. In paragraph 4, the Court held that the rights to a trade mark
and in connection therewith are matters in rem and by their very nature are not amenable to private
forum chosen by the parties. This is a broadly stated proposition. But it is, in my view, considerably
circumscribed by the next observation which is that the disputes in the matter before him
concerning infringement and passing off did not arise out of the contract between the parties which
contains an arbitration clause.
In this case, they do; and they arise only out of the contract. In particular, I notice that this decision
did not consider the Supreme Court decision in Booz Allen cited by Dr. Tulzapurkar.
Notice of Motion (L) No. 2097 of 2014 in Suit No. 673 of 2014, decided on 21st November 2014.
10 of 17 EROS v TELEMAX NMS886-2013-331-2013.doc
15. Mr. Dhond also referred to a well-known commentary, O.P. Malhotra's Law & Practice of
Arbitration and Conciliation. 9 In this, the learned author says that amongst the well-recognized
examples of broad categories of non-arbitrarble disputes are those in patent, trade marks and
copyright. I noticed, however, that in the same work at page 445, after citing Booz Allen, when
listing the well- recognized examples of non-arbitrable disputes, these matters under trade mark,
copyright and patent law are not mentioned. There is no authority mentioned for the former
proposition.
16. Section 62 of the Copyright Act 1957 corresponds almost exactly to Section 134 of the Trade
Marks Act, 1999: infringement and passing off actions cannot be brought in a court lower than a
jurisdictionally competent District Court, one within whose limits the plaintiff resides or works for
gain. I do not think these sections can be read as ousting the jurisdiction of an arbitral panel. All that
Eros International Media Limited vs Telemax Links India Pvt Limited And 7 Ors on 12 April, 2016
Indian Kanoon - http://indiankanoon.org/doc/148880955/
8

--- PAGE 9 ---
they mean is that such actions are not to be brought before the registrar or the board, viz., an
authority set up by either of those statutes. In fact, Section 134 of the Trade Marks Act, 1999,
correctly read, answers in full Mr. Dhond's case of having to pursue a remedy given by statute in a
particular forum; for that section contains the same provision as regards trade mark passing off
actions and it is well settled that an action in passing off is not in pursuit of a statutory remedy but
one in common law. It is a mistake, I think, to see these so-called 'intellectual property' statutes as
relating to rights that stand wholly apart from the general body of law. These are special rights to be
sure, but they are, at their heart, a species of property and share much with their more tangible
cousins to whom acts such as the Sale of Goods Act or the Transfer of Property Act apply. Even those
acts confer certain 'rights'; and the registration of Third Edition, 2014 by Ms. Indu Malhotra 11 of 17
EROS v TELEMAX NMS886-2013-331-2013.doc a document of title to land (or, for that matter, to a
motor scooter) is also in one sense a right against the world, i.e., any other who would lay claim to it.
I see no material distinction between in this regard between being the owner of land and the
proprietor of a mark. What Sections 62 of the Copyright Act, 1957 and the Trade Marks Act, 1999
seem to do, I believe, is to define the entry level of such actions in our judicial hierarchy. They confer
no exclusivity and it is not possible from such sections, common to many statutes, to infer the ouster
of an entire statute. These sections do not themselves define arbitrability or non-arbitrability. For
that, we must have regard to the nature of the claim that is made.
17. I must therefore consider what is it precisely that Mr. Dhond possibly means when he says that
these are "rights in rem". I find it very difficult to accept this proposition stated like this. It seems to
me to be altogether too broad. As between two claimants to a copyright or a trade mark in either
infringement or passing off action, that action and that remedy can only ever be an action in
personam. It is never an action in rem. In trade mark law it is true that the registration of a mark
gives the registrant a right against the world at large. It is possible that an opposition to such an
application (before the Registrar) would be an action in rem, for it would result in either the grant or
non grant of the registration, good against the world at large. But an infringement or passing off
action binds only the parties to it. Take an example. A may allege infringement and passing off by B.
A may succeed against B. That success does not mean that A must necessarily succeed in another
action of infringement and passing off against C. The converse is also true. Should A fail in his action
against B, he may yet nonetheless succeed in his action against C. This applies equally to copyright
actions. A man may be able to demonstrate that his copyright in a 12 of 17 EROS v TELEMAX
NMS886-2013-331-2013.doc film, a literary work, an artistic work or any other work in which
copyright is said to subsist is infringed by a certain party. But he may not be able to show such an
infringement at the hands of another party. Both are actions in personam. What is in rem is the
Plaintiff's or registrant's entitlement to bring that action. That entitlement is a result of having
obtained or acquired copyright (either by authorship or assignment) or having statutory or common
law rights in a mark.
18. The Arbitration Act is not one that we should constantly try to short-circuit in matter after
matter. Unless specifically barred, what a Civil Court can do, an arbitrator can do. Dr. Tulzapurkar
points out that this dispute is one that is purely contractual. It arises out of the Term Sheet. I think
that is correct. The relief that the Plaintiff seeks today, a decree in damages and injunction, are both
reliefs that an arbitrator can well grant. These are reliefs that are routinely granted in arbitrations.
Eros International Media Limited vs Telemax Links India Pvt Limited And 7 Ors on 12 April, 2016
Indian Kanoon - http://indiankanoon.org/doc/148880955/
9

--- PAGE 10 ---
Mr. Dhond says that the arbitrator can never arrive at a finding of copyright infringement. I do not
see why not. That is surely a finding of fact. It is not a question of making an order in rem at all. This
is quite distinct from, say, a Testamentary proceeding where a will is sought to be proved. That is
obviously not something that can ever be sent to an arbitrator. It requires proof of the Will in its
solemn form. That Will, when proved, either with or without contest, is proved once and for all, till it
is revoked, against the world at large. Where a probate Petitioner obtains a probate against certain
Caveators, that probate can be set up against every other person whether or not that person was a
Caveator before the Court. This is a material distinction. The same principle applies to every single
one of the excepted categories set out in the Supreme Court's decision in Booz Allen or, for that
matter, those mentioned in Malhotra's treatise. Guardianship matters, Insolvensy and Winding Up
mattes all provide good 13 of 17 EROS v TELEMAX NMS886-2013-331-2013.doc examples. Where a
winding up Petition is admitted against a Company, it enures for the entire body of creditors. It is
never allowed to be withdrawn by a simple compromise between a particular creditor and the
Company. Any other creditor is entitled to step into the petitioning creditor's shoes. Similarly,
matters relating to guardianship: a guardian is appointed by a Court to represent a minor or person
of unsound mind; that appointment is good against the world at large.
19. Where there are matters of commercial disputes and parties have consciously decided to refer
these disputes arising from that contract to a private forum, no question arises of those disputes
being non-arbitrable. Such actions are always actions in personam, one party seeking a specific
particularized relief against a particular defined party, not against the world at large.
20. Mr. Dhond's submission that this will involve splitting up of a claim into arbitrable and
non-arbitrable components and will, therefore, be contrary to the decision of the Supreme Court in
Sukanya Holdings (P) Limited v Jayesh H Pandya 10 is also incorrect. There is no such splitting. I
am also unable to accept Mr. Dhond's reliance on the decision of the Division Bench of Madras High
Court in R.K. Productions Private Limited v M/s. N.K. Theatres Private Limited.11 There the
Division Bench held in paragraph 16 on the basis of Sukanya Holdings that a splitting up of the case
was required. The arbitration clause in that particular case was also extremely peculiar because it
operated to close out the question of infringement of copyright upon payment of a certain amount.
In any case, the decision of the Division Bench of the Madras High Court (2003) 5 SCC 531 2013 1
L.W. 485 14 of 17 EROS v TELEMAX NMS886-2013-331-2013.doc is not binding. It also does not
note the decision of the Supreme Court in V.H. Patel's case. I believe that makes a material
difference.
21. I do not think it is possible to lose sight of the fact that in trade mark and copyright disputes, we
very often are confronted with written agreements. In copyright matters, agreements are in fact a
statutory requirement for an assignment. There must be a written document. The law does not say
that the written document of assignment should have an arbitration clause. But many do. What Mr.
Dhond suggests, in effect, is that in every one of these cases, all these arbitration clauses must be
treated as entirely null, void and otiose. No law that I am aware of even remotely suggests anything
of the kind. I think it would do a very great violence not only to the language but to the purpose and
ambit of the Arbitration Act as also the Copyright Act, if I would have to read it in the manner Mr.
Dhond suggests.
Eros International Media Limited vs Telemax Links India Pvt Limited And 7 Ors on 12 April, 2016
Indian Kanoon - http://indiankanoon.org/doc/148880955/
10

--- PAGE 11 ---
22. I find Mr. Dhond's protests, to the effect that the view I am inclined to take would turn the entire
edifice of intellectual property law on its head, needlessly alarmist. It will do nothing of the kind. On
the contrary, I believe an acceptance of Mr. Dhond's view must result in widespread confusion and
mayhem in commercial transactions. We often have complex commercial documents and
transactions that routinely deal with intellectual property rights of various descriptions as part of
the overall transaction. This can be said of mergers, acquisitions, joint ventures, the setting up of
special purpose vehicles, technology transfer and sharing agreements, technical tie-ups, licensing
and so on. The range of fields of human activity that could possibly be covered by any one or more of
these is limited by nothing but our own imagination: steel manufacturing, setting up of power
plants, software, motor car 15 of 17 EROS v TELEMAX NMS886-2013-331-2013.doc manufacture,
computer hardware, music, films, books and literature, performances and even services. If Mr.
Dhond is correct, then in any of these cases, where intellectual property rights are transferred or, for
that matter, in any way dealt with, no dispute arising from any such agreement or transactional
document could ever be referred to arbitration, and every single arbitration clause in any such
document would actually, in his formulation of it, be void and non-est ab initio. It would have to be
so -- Sukanya Holdings will not allow a dispute relating to intellectual property rights to be
segregated from other disputes. I do not think the world of domestic and international commerce is
prepared for the apocalyptic legal thermonuclear devastation that will follow an acceptance of Mr.
Dhond's submission.
23. Not to put too fine a point on it, Mr. Dhond's argument misses a fundamental aspect of the
Supreme Court's decision in V. H. Patel. What the Supreme Court had before it in that case was a
reference to arbitration that related to three trade marks and injunction claims in relation to these.
One of the arbitral declarations was that the three registered trade marks continued to be the assets
of a particular firm. Others before the arbitrator were declared by arbitral award to have no right,
title or interest in these marks. The arbitrator issued an injunction permanently restraining those
others from using or explosing in the course of trade or otherwise any of those marks in any
territory. No question was ever raised before the Supreme Court in V. H. Patel about the award on
the issue of the trade marks being bad on account of non- arbitrability, nor did that issue give the
Supreme Court pause. The only question of arbitrability was about the dissolution of the firm, and
there, as we have seen, the Supreme Court found that reference to arbitration was indeed
competent.
16 of 17 EROS v TELEMAX NMS886-2013-331-2013.doc
24. I note here that the Defendants Nos. 2 to 8 have all filed Affidavits, agreeing to submit their
disputes to the arbitration under the arbitration clause in the Term Sheet. Each of them have also
said that they were all sub-licensees of Defendant No. 1. They are also, therefore, covered by the
amended Section 8 of the Arbitration & Conciliation Act, 1996.
25. In this view of the matter, I see no reason to deny the relief sought. There will be an order in
terms of prayer clause (c), which reads as under:
Eros International Media Limited vs Telemax Links India Pvt Limited And 7 Ors on 12 April, 2016
Indian Kanoon - http://indiankanoon.org/doc/148880955/
11

--- PAGE 12 ---
"(c) That this Hon'ble Court be pleased to pass an order under Section 8 of the
Arbitration and Conciliation Act, 1996 referring the present suit to arbitration
pursuant to the Arbitration Agreement contained in the Term Sheet dated 13th June
2012 executed between the Plaintiff and Defendant No. 1;"
26. This disposes of the Notice of Motion. All the disputes in the Suit are referred to the arbitation.
27. Mr. Dhond seeks a stay of the operation of this order. The order is stayed for a period of eight
weeks from today. The slightly longer-than-normal stay is granted only because I am anxious to
avoid compelling the Plaintiff to move the Vacation Judge during the forthcoming Summer Vacation
that commences just a few weeks from now.
(G. S. PATEL, J.) 17 of 17
Eros International Media Limited vs Telemax Links India Pvt Limited And 7 Ors on 12 April, 2016
Indian Kanoon - http://indiankanoon.org/doc/148880955/
12
